What's new – 8.14 (#5227)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

{security-guide-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9]

// NOTE: The notable-highlights tagged regions are re-used in the Installation and Upgrade Guide. Full URL links are required in tagged regions.
// tag::notable-highlights[]

[float]
== Generative AI enhancements

The following generative AI enhancements have been added:

[float]
=== Attack Discovery

Introducing {security-guide}/attack-discovery.html[Attack discovery], a new AI-powered tool that can identify and describe potential attacks that span multiple alerts. It can identify connections between alerts and map them to the MITRE ATT&CK® matrix to help make the most of each security analyst's time, fight alert fatigue, and reduce your mean time to respond.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/attack-discovery-full-card.png[Attack discovery detail view]

[float]

> === Elastic AI Assistant UI improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Redesigned Elastic AI Assistant UI
```

> {security-guide}/security-assistant.html[Elastic AI Assistant] for {elastic-sec} has a redesigned user interface that uses a flyout instead of a popup, making it fit more smoothly within your workflows and with standard {kib} design patterns. Also, when using OpenAI models, AI Assistant can now "stream" responses, rendering word-by-word rather than appearing as complete text blocks, to provide a more conversational experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{security-guide}/security-assistant.html[Elastic AI Assistant] for {elastic-sec} has a redesigned user interface that uses a flyout instead of a popup, aligning it with standard {kib} design patterns. Also, when using OpenAI models, AI Assistant can now "stream" responses, rendering word-by-word rather than appearing as complete text blocks, providing a more conversational experience.
```

> {security-guide}/security-assistant.html[Elastic AI Assistant] for security has a redesigned user interface that uses a flyout instead of a popup, making it fit more smoothly within your workflows and with standard {kib} design patterns. Also, when using OpenAI models, responses from AI Assistant can now "stream", meaning render word-by-word rather than appearing as complete text blocks after processing is complete, which provides a more conversational experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{security-guide}/security-assistant.html[Elastic AI Assistant] for {elastic-sec} has a redesigned user interface that uses a flyout instead of a popup, making it fit more smoothly within your workflows and with standard {kib} design patterns. Also, when using OpenAI models, AI Assistant can now "stream" responses, rendering word-by-word rather than appearing as complete text blocks, to provide a more conversational experience.
```

[float]
== Entity Analytics enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to Entity Analytics:

[float]
=== Asset criticality file upload

> You can {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html#bulk-assign-asset-criticality[bulk assign asset criticality] to multiple entities at a time by importing a text file from your asset management tools. This file-based bulk upload feature allows you to quickly and easily import a list of entities and their asset criticality levels into the {security-app}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html#bulk-assign-asset-criticality[bulk assign asset criticality] to multiple entities at a time by importing a text file from your asset management tools. This feature allows you to quickly and easily import a list of entities and their asset criticality levels into the {security-app}.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/asset-criticality-file-upload.gif[Animation of asset criticality file upload,90%]

[float]

> === Asset criticality can be unassigned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Unassign asset criticality
```

> You can unassign {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html[asset criticality] from a host or user, in case the criticality level is no longer known, or the currently assigned level is incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can unassign {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html[asset criticality] from a host or user if the criticality level is no longer known, or the currently assigned level is incorrect.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/unassign-criticality.png[Unassign asset criticality, 50%]

[float]
=== Risk scoring engine processes up to 10,000 alerts per entity

When calculating {security-guide}/entity-risk-scoring.html[entity risk scores], the risk scoring engine now takes into account a maximum of 10,000 alerts per entity. This ensures that the engine remains operational in environments with extremely large data volume.

[float]

> === Entity details flyout is available from the Entity Analytics dashboard 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Access the entity details flyout from the Entity Analytics dashboard 
```

Clicking on a specific host or user name in the {security-guide}/detection-entity-dashboard.html[Entity Analytics dashboard] now opens the host or user details flyout instead of the host or user details page. This allows you to access entity metadata and risk score information without navigating away from the dashboard.

[float]
=== Entity details flyout shows contribution scores per alert

> The **Risk contributions** section of the {security-guide}/hosts-overview.html#host-details-flyout[entity details flyout] now shows the top 10 alerts that contributed to the latest risk scoring calculation, and each alert's contribution score. This makes each entity's risk score easier to understand and gives better insight into which alerts you should investigate at the entity level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Risk contributions** section of the {security-guide}/hosts-overview.html#host-details-flyout[entity details flyout] now shows the top 10 alerts that contributed to the latest risk scoring calculation and each alert's contribution score. This makes each entity's risk score easier to understand and gives better insight into which alerts you should investigate at the entity level.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/contribution-scores-per-alert.png[Contribution scores for top 10 alerts, 90%]

[float]
== Detection rules and alerts enhancements

> The following enhancements have been added to detection rules and alerts:

Author: ```suggestion
```

[float]
=== Value list improvements

You can now {security-guide}/value-lists-exceptions.html#edit-value-lists[edit value lists] from the UI, wherever you use them. For example, you can now add items to a value list while creating a rule exception that references that value list.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/edit-value-lists.png[Edit items in a value list, 90%]

[float]

> === ES|QL fields can be added as custom highlighted fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Add ES|QL fields as custom highlighted fields
```

When adding custom highlighted fields to an {esql} rule, you can now {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#custom-highlighted-esql-fields[specify any fields returned by the rule's query]. This allows you to surface fields that contain useful information for investigating alerts.

[float]
=== Editable setup guide field for detection rules

You can now {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#rule-ui-advanced-params[edit the **Setup guide** field] for user-created custom rules. Use this informational field to list rule prerequisites such as required integrations, configuration steps, and anything else needed for the rule to work correctly.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/setup-guide-field.png[Setup guide field]

[float]
=== Alert suppression improvements 

> In 8.14, we're moving {security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[alert suppression] for custom query rules from technical preview to generally available. We're also adding alert suppression to event correlation rules (non-sequence queries only) and new terms rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 8.14, we've moved {security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[alert suppression] for custom query rules from technical preview to generally available. We've also added alert suppression to event correlation rules (non-sequence queries only) and new terms rules.
```

[float]
== {elastic-defend} enhancements

> The following enhancements have been added to {elastic-defend}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[float]

> === Malware file scanning options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== New malware file scanning options
```

When configuring {security-guide}/configure-endpoint-integration-policy.html#malware-protection[malware protection], you can choose whether {elastic-defend} scans files when they're modified or executed. This can improve performance on hosts where files are frequently modified, while continuing to identify malware as it attempts to run.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/malware-protection.png[Malware protection section, 80%]

[float]

> ===  Automatic antivirus registration of {elastic-defend}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===  Automatically register {elastic-defend} as antivirus
```

If you're using {elastic-defend}'s malware protection, you can now automatically {security-guide}/configure-endpoint-integration-policy.html#register-as-antivirus[register {elastic-defend} as the antivirus software] for Windows endpoints.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/register-as-antivirus.png[Register as antivirus section, 80%]

[float]
== Cloud Security Posture Management support for AWS GovCloud

> Elastic's {security-guide}/cspm.html[Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)] integration now supports AWS GovCloud, so you can monitor and track how your GovCloud clusters perform against security benchmarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elastic's {security-guide}/cspm.html[Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)] integration now supports AWS GovCloud so you can monitor and track how your GovCloud clusters perform against security benchmarks.
```

The following enhancements have been added to detection rules and alerts:

[float]
=== Value list improvements

> You can now {security-guide}/value-lists-exceptions.html#edit-value-lists[edit value lists] directly from the UI and wherever you use them. For example, you can add items to a value list while creating a rule exception that references that value list.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can now {security-guide}/value-lists-exceptions.html#edit-value-lists[edit value lists] from the UI, wherever you use them. For example, you can now add items to a value list while creating a rule exception that references that value list.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/edit-value-lists.png[Edit items in a value list, 90%]

[float]
=== ES|QL fields can be added as custom highlighted fields

> When adding custom highlighted fields to an ES|QL rule, you can now {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#custom-highlighted-esql-fields[specify any fields returned by the rule's query]. This allows you to surface ES|QL fields that contain useful information for investigating alerts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When adding custom highlighted fields to an {esql} rule, you can now {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#custom-highlighted-esql-fields[specify any fields returned by the rule's query]. This allows you to surface fields that contain useful information for investigating alerts.
```

[float]
=== Editable setup guide field for detection rules

You can now {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#rule-ui-advanced-params[edit the **Setup guide** field] for user-created custom rules. Use this informational field to list rule prerequisites such as required integrations, configuration steps, and anything else needed for the rule to work correctly.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.14/setup-guide-field.png[Setup guide field]

[float]

> === Alert suppression for custom query rules is now generally available

Reviewer 3: Here's a generic title you can use so you can group the alert suppression changes together. Feel free to use something different if you have another title in mind. :)

```suggestion
=== Alert suppression improvements 
```

> In 8.14, we're moving {security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[alert suppression] for custom query rules from technical preview to generally available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In 8.14, we're moving {security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[alert suppression] for custom query rules from technical preview to generally available. We're also adding alert suppression to event correlation rules (non-sequence queries only) and new terms rules.
```

[float]

> === Alert suppression supported for more rule types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Alert suppression is now supported for event correlation rules (non-sequence queries only) and new terms rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
